and introduction to first Samuel.
In the original Hebrew canon, first and second Samuel were one volume.
The writing is attributed to the prophet's Samuel, Gad, and Nathan,
Samuel penning the first 24 chapters.
First Samuel covers a period of just over 100 years
from about 1180 to 1078 BCE, roughly when the writing was completed.
The book is largely about four leaders in Israel.
High Priest Eli, the prophet Samuel, King Saul, and David.
In chapter 1, a barren woman named Hannah begs Jehovah for a son,
promising to devote him to God's service.
God answers her prayer.
When her child Samuel was weaned, she places him in the care of high priest Eli in Shiloh.
In chapter 3, Jehovah tells young Samuel to deliver a judgment message against Eli's house
because he has failed to rebuke his wicked sons.
In chapter 4, Philistines capture the ark of the covenant at Israel's army camp
and slay Eli's two sons, Hoffnai and Phineas.
When 98-year-old Eli hears the news, he falls backward and dies.
In chapters 5-7, the Philistines return the ark to Israel
after suffering a series of heavy punishments from Jehovah.
In the next chapter, the Israel lights faithlessly demand a king.
In chapter 9, Jehovah tells Samuel to anoint Saul of the tribe of Benjamin as leader of Israel.
Chapter 11 shows that Saul starts out well, but before long he becomes disobedient.
In chapter 13, he presumptuously offers up a burnt sacrifice.
In chapter 15, he defeats the Amalekites, but disobediently spares king Agag
and the best of the herd and the flock.
To obey is better than a sacrifice, Samuel says.
He then tells Saul that God has rejected him from being king.
In chapter 16, Samuel anoints David, a son of Jesse, to be the next king.
In the next chapter, David, with just a sling and a stone, kills the giant Goliath, a champion of the Philistines.
Chapter 18 records the start of a lifelong friendship between David and Saul's son Jonathan.
Seeing David's courage, Saul puts him in charge of the fighting men.
David's campaigns are so successful that he receives more praise than Saul, who becomes filled with murderous envy.
In chapter 19, David flees for his life, remaining effugitive until Saul's death.
Did you know?
First Samuel has valuable lessons about faith and obedience.
Eli and Saul disobeyed Jehovah and came to a tragic end.
Samuel and David, however, served God faithfully from their youth, thus enjoying his blessing throughout their lives.
In chapter 24 and 26, David has opportunities to kill Saul, but he refuses to harm Jehovah's anointed.
In chapter 25, Samuel dies and all Israel mourns.
David, now in the wilderness of Perran, sends ten of his young men to a wealthy sheep owner called Naible to ask for provisions.
When Naible insolently refuses to help, David prepares to take revenge.
However, Naible's wife Abigail quickly goes to David with provisions and avert's tragedy.
In chapter 31, first Samuel closes with the death of Saul and three of his sons, who are buried under a tamerisk tree in J. Beshgiliad.
As you read first Samuel, note how Eli and Saul brought disgrace upon themselves.
See why Jehovah loved Samuel and David.
And read how God built for David a lasting house, which eventually led to the Messiah, the King of God's Kingdom.